Training Guidelines & Tips


General guidelines
Start with the largest muscle group first then work progressively to the smaller muscles groups. For instance, do your flat bench, then inclines, then shoulders, then triceps.

Push-Pull method
On push days, you want to focus on all the muscles used to push, i.e. chest, shoulders and triceps. On pull days, you concentrate on your back and biceps.

Say you decide to mix things up a bit and on day 1 you do your chest and biceps. On day 2, you decide to do your back and triceps. On day 2, you will not have a good back workout because your biceps will be fatigued from the workout the day before and you will not be able to work your back to its fullest potential because your biceps will give out before your back does.  
If you mix it up, you'll never have fully recovered to give your particular muscle group a good, thorough workout. 

Also, you may not see as much growth if you mix it up because you will never give your muscles a true day off. 
If you train your chest on one day, and your triceps on another, on your chest day you will automatically work your triceps which will not get the necessary rest since you'll be doing triceps on another day, which will automatically work your chest a bit, not giving it the rest required to grow.


Deadlift form

1. barbell should be right over the middle of the feet
2. Feet shoulder width apart and slightly angled outward
3. Don’t go down too much, it’s not a squat
4. Engage the glutes and squeeze glutes at the top of the motion
5. shoulders down and back, chest up
6. The bar should be grazing the knees while going up; that’s normal
7. engage the lats by pretending you are squeezing your arms in the armpit
8. Spine should also be in neutral position- no looking into the mirror, straight with the spine
9. DO NOT stretch knees first and then hinge across the hips, both are to be done in one swift motion
10. Load the hamstrings and then in one swift motion, go to the top
11. At the top of the motion, squeeze the butt cheeks as much as you can. It’s not the same as leaning back
12. engage the lats by thinking of bending the bar
	

Squats form
1. Go as deep as possible, the hip hinge should ideally go below knee joints
2. Feet shoulder width apart and angled slightly outward
3. feet should be right below the barbell
4. take a deep breath in at the top position and hold your breath thereby tightening your core for the entire go-down, move-up motion. Release breath again at the top and take another deep breath and continue. 
5. You are supposed to hold the breath for the entire movement
6. use abdominal belt and knee sleeves
7. barbell position:
    1. high position - still below the neck
    2. low position - on the traps touching rear deltoids
8. While going up, don’t just think about pushing up, rather think about driving your hips forward, pushing your heels against the surface and squeezing the glutes
9. follow the same path on the knees while going down and up with knees going slightly outwards, parallel to the direction of the heels
10. keep the back spine straight. no flexion


Bent over barbell row
1. Back straight and parallel to the ground
2. Pull in with the elbows ending at the chest

Pull-Up Form:
* think of "squeezing" the elbows to the body. 


Lat pull downs

* Keep your chest tall/bring your chest to the bar
* Keep your elbows pointed straight down
* Squeeze your lats/think of pulling from your armpits
* Lower to your chin or just below
* Grab just outside your shoulders or a little wider
* Also try using the ‘V-grip’ handle



Questions:
1. Shoulder position to activate lats
2. reverse pec deck for back deltoid development
3. side lateral for medial deltoid
4. should press for overall shoulders
5. 
